(rock intro)
Alright let's talk about how to
actually get the items to go where we want.
So let's open up ten placing, placing start,
we've got the same grid that we were working with before
including our little poop.
He's so cute.
And uh next up we want to select an item.
So let's select, let's give this guy a class of poop
and let's grab on to the poop.
And before what we did was we said
grid, column, span 2, and that would just span it two.
Let's give it a background of bad ass, B A D A55.
Good, well what grid column is actually shorthand for is
actually two values and I can show you that.
Let's uh inspect it here and open up your rules tab
and you see a grid column is here.
One neat thing about um dev tools is if you open it up
you'll see that anytime you have a shorthand property
you can open it up to see what the longhand property
actually are, like background has a ton of 'em.
Um you see it's grid column start span 2
and then grid column end auto.
So what we're actually doing is we're actually
telling it to um be
just start where you normally would but go twice the size.
So let's actually get rid of grid column
and just explicitly define them as we want
and how we can do that now is if we say
grid column start and let's say we want it to
start at now where do we start?
Well, we can start at track values.
If we head over to our layout tab, turn it on.
You see all of these track numbers here?
So if I wanted the poop to start at two,
again this is the uh the number tooth track that we have
we would just say two, give that a save
and what that's going to do is it's going to
lay all of the ones out before it, which is eight,
and then it's going to start the poop at two
and then similarly we can say grid column end
and if we wanted to end it at, let's do
five
it's going to span it all the way across.
So instead of us telling it to span three,
we can just tell it the start
and the stop values that we want.
So similarly, if we wanted to do that in one go
we would just say grid, column, and we would say two
and then the shorthand is forward slash five
and get rid of these two here and that's
the exact same value.
So start and stop um similarly we could also say
we want it to span two but we want it to end at five
and that'll give us the exact same value
except now that it's two
or what you could do is you could tell it to uh
start at one and span two
and in that case it's going to start at one and span two.
So you see how we can either just tell it where to start
and where to stop or we can tell it, either where to start
or where to stop and then tell it how big
we actually wish it to be.
It's actually really really flexible in that case
and I really like that.
Um, it's pretty nifty.
Uh another thing we can also do is
you can tell it to always start at the start which is one
and you can tell it to end at the last track.
So if you do not know how many, uh, tracks you will have
you just say negative one and that will
that will span it across.
So I often will use this as a
sort of like a width 100%,
anytime you want to span um an item across the entire
grid, its a one negative one.
If I did negative two it'll start you off two,
or sorry, one from the actual end and you can
keep going as far as you want.
You can say negative four but at that point uh,
there's not a whole lot you can do.
We still can mix and match these with the rows as well.
So we say grid row uh if we want to start at three
that's where it it, let's keep it there
and then I want to span three.
That will start it here and span three as we want
and it will sort of fit it in as we want.
You could also tell it to go to seven,
so start` at three, go to seven.
Eight you see that it gets as big as we want.
What if we wanted it to span from the top,
which is grid row one, good starts at the top,
all the way to the end of the grid,
you think negative one right?
Give it a shot, whaaat?
Why didn't that work similarly how it did to this?
Where I would say one negative one,
it would span all the way across
but if I do one negative one for rows,
it's only taking up one row
and it seems to be uh putting it before
any of the other items that are in there
and I believe that is because we did not
explicitly define any rows.
So grid template rows and if we give that a save,
you'll see ooh interesting here what's happening
is that I'm actually taking up the entire grid here
so if you ever want to take up an entire grid,
this is what you do, one negative one one negative one
and that takes up the, let's give these black,
and do our little bit of zooming.
This is the entire explicit grid meaning this it the grid
that we have created and then what's happening with the
rest of these is that there was nowhere for
these rest of the elements to go so they get tossed
into the implicit grid which is um where the
implicit rows have then been created.
So let me not do both of those.
So let me just bring column back to span two
and then here it will, negative one,
will only ever go to the bottom of the explicit grid
not the bottom of the implicit grid that we have there.
So hopefully we have that, we're gonna do
a bunch of exercises next which will
get you comfortable with placing and spanning
and sizing all of our elements.
(hard rock music)